January 3rd. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes talking to
my buddy Damien Edwards. How's
it going, sir? I'm very
well. How are you? Very
well. So congratulations on signal,
our being an officially supported
Microsoft thing. You're your guys's
weekend project. You and David Fowler
is now like a real
thing. When you say file
new project in the visual
studio, 22 version of asp.net,
it's a, there's a signal,
our choice. That's right. Does
that seem more like official
than the other stuff that
you have actually shipped? Like
you've shipped web forms and
that's like official and awesome,
but somehow this is your
baby. Yeah. I joined the
team coming up to three
years ago and I actually
joined the team, went out
the door. I was heavily
involved in that release management
side, I guess, official product
roadmap. It was literally a
side project very soon. So
it's been really exciting. How
often does that happen? Where
Microsoft will take something and
that is open source and
ship. It Honestly produced by
Microsoft. It's still a personal
project. Why did you choose
to do this? Then you
could have just left it,
right? We could've, We could've
just said no, we're going
to continue. I mean, so
talk about what sort of,
we talked about this originally
with management and sort of
the understanding at the time
was that you guys continue
this as a moonlighting project.
With the understanding that one,
the roadmap kind of opens
up once.net four or five
has finished. We'd be interested
in looking at making this
part of the product because
we think it's really important,
you know, to the web
development story moving forward. And
we never had any problem
with that. I mean, we've
obviously, , there's a lot
of benefits to being a
project that's produced and supported
by Microsoft. I mean, I'm
sitting in one half of
our team room at the
moment. We're in a fairly
new building right now. We
moved a couple of months
ago previously we had a
team room with all of
the signal, a team in
it together now with split
across toot a room. So
they have a trailer and
I sit in this one
room and directly opposite. The
whole here is a team,
a room with five or
six people in it. And
we're all working on signal
and we even have more
people. We have people on
the perf team and the
stress team working on signaler
basically full time as well.
So we have maybe 10
to 12 people at the
moment working on signaler, which
we couldn't have possibly imagined
if this was just a
moon landing project. Yeah. Interesting.
I mean, to assemble that
many people into it, into
a team and the open
source world and do it
fully, you know, even close
to full time would be
possible. Yeah, that's that's yeah,
exactly. So that's one of
the huge benefits, right? And
then we get other benefits
like localization is now something
you can do. We have
a user experience or user
education team whose job is
to do documentation, which is
always a really big problem
on open source projects. You
know, who's going to write
good quality documentation. So we
get all these resources and
you know, other people and
teams available to us to,
to work on this. Cause
that's now basically just part
of asp.net. Okay. So you've
had a bunch of people
working on it. Now you've
got people from different departments,
you've got QA localization stress,
you've got a user documentation,
but this thing was a
regular old two guys on
get hub project, you know,
some, some months ago. Do,
how do you get all
these Microsoft employees to commit
to that random GitHub repository?
Or did you have to
like sell your soul and
make some change to make
this happen? Good question. So
as part of the process
of sort of changing this
from being a project that
just David and I worked
on to being something that
the Microsoft there has been
on, that team works on.
We actually assigned all the
project, the copyright associated with
the code, et cetera, over
to Microsoft, open tech. So
Microsoft open tech was that
subsidiary wholly owned subsidiary set
up by Microsoft in the
last year or two to
do open source work full
Microsoft, but still have it
be sort of within the
Microsoft realm. Whereas the other
organization people might be familiar
with as outer curve, formerly
the copex foundation, which is
not a company, it's a,
it is an organization as
far as I, and it
is completely separate from Microsoft.
And so things like new
get, which are in Adekov
the code isn't actually owned
by Microsoft. It's owned by
outer curve and Microsoft people
contribute to it, but it's
not owned by Microsoft or
signal is a Microsoft open
tech, which is the same
as asp.net, MVC, web API,
razor entity framework. And so
we sort of fit within
the same sort of model
as them. So there is
the signal, our open source
project that I could commit
to, I can build, I
can fork and I could
do stuff with, and then
there's Microsoft signal R that
I ship with visual studio
and okay. And the signal
are that ships with visual
studio now is supported. I
mean, it's open source, but
it is also licensed as
a Microsoft product. And it
is, we find a big
corporation. Do I have to
go and say, gosh, I
can't ship open source. That's
the question we get quite
a lot actually. And the
truth is because as you
said, we, we basically, the
Microsoft entity takes the open
source code and repackages it
essentially, and ships it as
a Microsoft component. And if
you look at the assemblies
that we ship, they're signed
with the Microsoft code signing
key. So when we ship
them as a Microsoft release,
and that includes our nightly
builds that we push up
via my gate. And so
they are a true Microsoft
release. And so they come
with a ULA when you
get them by new gate,
when you get one of
the official Microsoft releases, there
was a ULA in the
new get package. And that
stipulates the terms that are
usually associated with using something
from Microsoft. And part of
that is a support of
sort of arrangement. And so
product support services or whatever
they're called today, CSS PSS
will provide support for this
product as it's shipped by
a, you know, supported Microsoft
team. And so, no, you
don't have to worry about
shipping open source in terms
of support from Microsoft, as
long as you're using the
thing that we actually shipped.
If you go and get
the source code from GitHub
and build it yourself, you're
on your own, Right? It's
just like, I use the
example of Firefox or Chrome,
which are all both used
in corporate environments. There's like
chromium the open source Chrome
that I could go and
build and run myself. But
I would be on my
own if I did that.
Right. But there's also, I
think more interestingly, there's also
libraries downstream. I mean, the
fact that Chrome is opensource
is one thing. The fact
that Chrome uses and sits
on, I hope pile of
open source is more interesting.
And what I think is
interesting, what I wanted to
talk to you about today
was that signal are, this
is, I don't know, maybe,
hopefully the boss won't listen,
but maybe, maybe he will
screw it. Signal R is
a Microsoft opensource project run
the way two developers would
want to do it without
any bosses. You have your
unit tests, the way you
would do it. You have
your environment set up the
way that you would do
it with no pressure from
Microsoft. You see what I'm
saying? You guys did it
the weekend. So it would
be as if, you know,
a couple of Microsoft guys
want to write a project,
that's going to be JavaScript
and CLR and there's no
bosses. So what I want
to know is what libraries
you use, what environments you
use, what a services build
systems, because there were no
bosses, but now you've snuck
it in. Are you still
using those same libraries? That's
a really good question. So
I think because we, you
know, David and I, you
know, we love open source.
David especially does a lot
of stuff in the opensource
community, helping out with mano,
getting stuff running on, on,
on that sort of platform
and things. Obviously he was
heavily involved in new, get
we one, we started on
GitHub. And so we were
staying on GitHub. We have
a really great following on
GitHub. So that was one
thing that is probably different
to, if we were started
in Microsoft, if we were
to start today, a brand
new.net, open source project, as
part of this team, it
would most likely be in
Plex. And there's nothing wrong
with that, but we started
to get hub. And so
we're going to stay in,
get hub. We have a
community there. Secondly, we, yeah,
we, we used a whole
bunch of other open source
libraries, not actually in our
code per se. Like we
haven't really incorporated stuff into
our code at all, but
we, as part of the
build process and as part
of producing samples and those
types of things, we use
quite a lot of open
source libraries. And there's some,
certainly some interesting developments recently,
which we can talk about,
which I'm quite proud of
that we've actually got up
and running as part of
our build process. But yeah,
so we, so we kind
of brought a lot of
that, I guess, baggage across
when we became an official
ASP net thing. And you
know, of course there is
a process involved internally to,
to get approval for or
to at least notify that
you're using certain types of
open source for specific purposes.
And I will say again,
there is a difference between
us using open source software
to produce the library. That
is what we term internal
use versus redistributing open source
as part of a product.
And I guess the, the
difference is with the ASP
net templates, we actually redistribute
things like jQuery, jQuery, UI,
and knockout. So we're actually
taking those open source libraries
and reshipping them in a
Microsoft product. Whereas in signal,
we don't do that. We
do use a whole bunch
of open source libraries in
our samples, but we don't
ship them. They just live
up in the source code
or we reference them by
a new get. So technically
we're not actually redistributing them.
And then when we actually
produce signal out, we do
a bunch of testing and
we use a lot of,
we've used some really interesting
open source libraries and platforms
for that testing, which is
kind of cool as well.
So there's a process we
have to go through, but
you know, a part of
getting the benefits of Microsoft
is you also have to
adhere some of these things
and it hasn't really been
a problem. Okay. So we're,
we're a couple of minutes
into the podcast here and
realizing that there may be
people that don't know what
signal are, is briefly. It
is a, a real time
communications library. It's an abstraction
over a web sockets and
long polling and forever frames
and all the things that
one uses to do real
time communication. And it's basically
kind of like the realtime
aspects of node except in
asp.net. And it consists of
a DLL on the server
side that has some modules
and some handlers and some
listeners. And on the client
side, it consists of some
JavaScript. Is there anything else
that ships with signaler? So
we, on the client side,
we have a dependency on
jQuery. And so why we
don't actually redistribute J query
with signal. I mean, signaler
is a new get release.
We do have item templates,
which are included in the
ASP net updates that we,
that we also we've also
shipped in, but signal our
itself. Isn't registered building jQuery,
it's being redistributed by that
other package. And so we
depend on jQuery. We also
depend on jason.net on the
service side. So we have,
we have a reference to
that. So your project we'll
have to get that from
new get. And of course
our nougat package has a
dependency on that. So then
you get those that for,
Right, right. But, but now
that asp.net web API, which
is the services stuff, has
jason.net dependencies that's okay. Or
not. Okay. But it's more
common. That is our preferred
Jason serializer now That's right.
Yeah. And so, I mean,
again, most of this stuff
is usually plugable out jQuery
dependency is hard at the
moment in the client because
they give us just a
lot of stuff that we
don't want to have to
rewrite. And then the other
thing we depend on from
a runtime perspective is Owen,
which I think you spoke
about recently in another podcast,
But, but you should, you
should get a little bit
into that because people don't
know what Owen is or
why it's going to become
increasingly important. Yeah. Yeah. We
should probably do a talk
on that@somepointorapodcastonthatactuallytheopenwebinterfacesfor.net and it's basically
a contract between a web
server. So that is the,
the physical bit of software
that deals with taking stuff
bites off the wire and
then formulating them into things
that look like HTTP requests
and then sending data back.
And then the web frameworks
that want to sit on
top of those things. So
this is kind of the
layer that sits in between
a web service or hosts
and then web frameworks upon
which you write your applications
with ASP net. Traditionally, we
think of ASP net being
joined at the hip with
IIS, which is in some
ways true. And so Owen
is an effort to create
web frameworks and a structure
for creating web frameworks that
can sort of coordinate and
sit on common hosts through
a common contract. And so
signal that actually takes a
dependency on Owen. We don't
talk to asp.net or system
web directly. The signal or
core actually is basically hosted
based on this Owen contract.
And then we, that means
can sit on top of
system where we can sit
on top of HTTP listener.
We can sit on top
of custom web servers, as
long as all those things
know how to talk Owen.
Okay. So this is allowing
signal or to communicate with,
with anything you can, can
you self host signaler? You
can, you can I'm at
the moment, the self host
story is a little bit
manual because Owen itself is
sort of developing with signal.
I mean, Owen has been
around for a few years,
but in terms of Owen's
use by Microsoft packages, it's
kind of got to a
tipping point. Now, we, we
said, well, no signal, or
is going to be the
first package. The first library
was ship that actually requires
Owen to run. So we
don't have a native system,
web host per se, which
we used to have. We
now only have an Owen
host. And that means that
you need to also have
the Owen system web adapter
or package in your project
in order for signal or
to run an asp.net. Now,
of course we do some
nice new get tricks to
make sure all that just
sort of happens. It's the
default story, but if you
peel away the layers, yeah.
We just sit on top
of Owen. So you can
sit on top of HTTP
listener. You can sit on
top of kayak or Firefly
or whatever custom web server
you like. And does it
work in model? You'd mentioned
that David has, is a
fan of motto. It does.
Yeah. We even have a
mano CII server set up
on code better. So David
is a big advocate of
trying to support the monitor
community. And so he does
a lot of personal effort
to ensure that the code,
the signal or code base
will compile for use on
mono. So we don't ship
a mano library. We don't
ship a DLL that will
work on mano, but you
can go to the GitHub
repository for signal. And there
is a make file and
there is a mano solution
file. So you can open
it and build it. Now,
there are things in signal
R that that work really,
really well on windows server,
2012, or on windows eight,
like, like web sockets. How
do you like those things
up while still building and
working on mano Abstractions? The
classic sort of suffer engineer's
answer of any problem can
be solved with another layer
of abstraction. So Olin kind
of encapsulates all of that
for us. Essentially, we rely
on the Owen host to
give us everything we need
in order to do, you
know, to get an HTTP
request in order to tell
the server to upgrade that
to web sockets. And if
we're sitting on top of
a host that can't do
that, then the Owen sort
of contract or the almond
host will tell us that
web sockets is not available.
And so we just, we
won't try it. And so
basically, as I said, the
signal or call library has
no concept of asp.net in
terms of asp.net core system
web. It, it just deals
with, Hey, I have an
I request and that I
request was populated by Owen.
And that's all. So you
are actually relying on, on
Owen to do that. And
even though Owen has a
little layer of abstraction, it
doesn't affect your performance. Correct.
So, I mean, obviously one
of our three major tenants
with signal Aras performance, we
have sort of these three
tenants, we try and do
all of our feature development
round, which is simplicity, reach
and performance. And with a
real time library, performance is
critical. And so we've been
very careful to ensure that
anything we do here doesn't
adversely affect performance in a
way that we think, you
know, makes it not worthwhile.
So we get a lot
of benefits by using Owen,
especially for people who are
doing things like self host,
and they want to be
able to run multiple frameworks
side by side. Perhaps they
want to use Nancy signaler
and web API within the
same process. Owen makes that
type of thing really, really
easy. And you can even
share common code that runs
in the Owen pipeline called
Owen middleware so that when
a request comes into your
application, before it hits one
of those three frameworks, you
can have common code that
runs and even code that
runs on the way out
as well, doing that with
asp.net. If for instance, you
have an asp.net application, and
then you have Nancy running
in that asp.net application. That's
a lot harder. So Owen
really makes that type of
thing really simple, but performance
is still very important to
us. And I'm very grateful.
We have a great performance
team to help us with
those tools. How do you,
how do you balance those
things? Because from an open
source projects perspective that was
done, you know, outside of
Microsoft, you could say those
are really great goals. Like
we're going to work in,
in mano, we're going to
support O N which means
people can use web servers
that are not IIS or
hosts, you know, or self
host, but then you move
it into Microsoft wouldn't or
doesn't the evil overlords say,
you know, those were really
lofty goals, but now you
are now you're ours. And
that, that, that question comes
up a bit. Even internally,
we talk about those type
of things. Obviously at the
end of the day, our
team is like a business
unit and we're making decisions
and trade offs based on,
you know, perceived investment in
return, those types of things.
But a lot of these
things are customer driven. I
mean, we have a lot
of asks from, and, you
know, we have internal customers
as well, not just external
customers. We have other groups
at Microsoft who are very
interested in this real time
web aspect who want to
be able to use sort
of the real time web
lobby that Microsoft introduces. And
they have their own requirements
that maybe they don't host
on IAS in their infrastructure
for whatever reason. But we
have a lot of customers,
both internal and external who
want to be able to
do self hosts, whether it's
in a window service or
a console app, they want
to be able to run
web API and signal lot
together in the same process
without sort of traditional asp.net
being involved. And so a
lot of it's driven by
customer demand. This isn't really
just sort of lofty, Oh,
we would like to get
to this eventual position where,
you know, where like Ruby
or node or whatever it
might be. We have real
customers asking real questions about
how they can use our
stuff together. And Owen helps
us solve quite a few
of those problems. Do you
think that some point some
boss will decide that that's
not in our best interests
or does it depend on
the boss? I mean, like
I know Hunter, it was
was are your, your boss
and my boss who we
share, it seems pretty cool.
But if he gets run
by a bus, if he
gets hit by a bus,
somebody could, could change their
mind. Maybe I haven't really
ever thought about that. So
the truth, I mean, Really
I think about this stuff
all the time Seems to
be extremely logical and how
they choose things. And we've
been given. I mean, I
have to say we've been
given quite a lot of
autonomy in the direction we're
taking signaler. I think at
the end of the day,
we all have common goals.
We're just trying to make
our customers happy and we
want to build cool stuff.
Yeah. But we want them
to do it on windows,
right. Or at least at
Azure. Yes, absolutely. I mean,
the end of the day,
we're part of the windows
Azure group. And over time,
you know, we get measured
to a certain extent by
how successful we can make
the windows Azure platform, no
secret there. Right. We're a
business unit. That's how we're
going to make our money.
And so, you know, we,
we still, we have a
lot of features that are,
that are geared around lighting
up and sort of cloud
hosting scenarios, which, you know,
sort of our scale out
features and things like that.
But still, if people, if
customers are asking us saying,
Hey, we want to be
able to be able to
use these things together in
this way. And at the
moment you're making it hard.
Well, we still want those
customers to host in Azure.
You know, that that would
be really good for us.
And so, you know, I
don't see them as conflicting
interests, I guess is the
point. I still, I still
think that anything we can
do to make customers happy
using our libraries will ultimately
India them to using other
parts of our stack. And
if they don't, that doesn't
matter either because, you know,
we still love people using
our libraries and they'll either
be on windows or they'll
be using our tools or
they'll be helping the community.
So there's always some benefit,
even if it's not strictly
tangible. Okay. Well that makes
sense. What kind of open
source things are you using
or what kind of build
systems do you use? Like
do you, do we use
team city or what are
we doing? Yeah, that's a
great question. So we, we
do use team city. We
have a couple of teams,
city service. We have a
public team city server, which
I maintain, which is up
at CEI dot  dot
net. And you can just
click on the login as
gift link there, and that
runs out public CII service.
So you can see the
status of the current build.
We build the dev branch,
which is where we do
our active development. And if
there is a release branch
current, because we're actually preparing
for a release, then we'll
be building that as well.
And we have a sort
of a standard CGI build
that builds, you know, unit
tests builds and does unit
tests. And we have a
full bill, but does a
lot more of our test
automation stuff, which is where
a lot more of our
open source use as part
of the build process comes
in. So we recently got
test swarm set up. Have
you heard of this before?
Test swarm? No, it sounds
Good though. All right. So
the test one was built
by the jQuery team and
it's a library to help
with distributed browser testing. So
the idea is if you
have a JavaScript library or
basically anything, a webpage, if
you, if you have a
set of tests that you
can run by hitting a
URL, and you want to
run that across lots of
different browsers, you need some
type of harness to coordinate
that thing, right? You need
something that defines what browser
is to run something that
tracks, if the tests have
run or not, and what
passed and what failed. And
that is test swarm. So
we use test swarm in
conjunction with a browser stack.
The browser stack is a
paid service, which is run@browserstack.com,
which hosts a virtual machines
of browsers cross platforms. So
they have iPad emulators, they
have Android phones. They have
obviously windows, all browsers running
on windows, Linux, and Mac,
and we pay them a
monthly fee. And then when
they have an API, we
can use to sort of
remotely drive these VMs, running
lots of different browsers to
hit a specific deployment of
our tests, which are written
in Q units. And Q
unit is another open source
library from the jQuery team
for doing JavaScript unit testing.
So we have these three
things working together. We have
key unit, which we write
out JavaScript tests in order
to test the signal, a
JavaScript client, we have BrowserStack,
which is a paid service
that lets us have VMs
to run, you know, lots
of different browsers. And then
we have tests warm, which
has condoms, the Honda site
coordinates all these things together.
So if you actually go
up to test swarm.signaler.net, you
can actually see the, the
jobs that are running in
our tests, one cloud, which
is kinda cool. And you'll
see a whole bunch of
browsers say, you can see
how many runs have been
on each browser. And if
you drill into the projects
menu and choose signal, or
you can actually see a
matrix of all the tests
that are currently running and
what their pass rates are.
So we recently got this
set up. It actually requires
Linux. So we're actually running
a, I think it's Python
on Linux with a bit
of node to integrate test
warm Apache and the BrowserStack
API. So we have that
running up in Azure on
a Linux VM, and then
a boom and Ubuntu VM.
And we basically publish jobs
to this test. One server
from our team city build
script. So a lot of
moving parts, but you know,
the outcome is that we
have a really nice distributed
sort of test architecture for
doing browser automation testing. Does
it kind of quote unquote,
just work? I mean, it
sounds complicated. It sounds a
little kind of Rube Goldberg,
but do you have to
sweat it? I had read
about this thing maybe 18
months ago, if you go
to a browser stack, there
is a page there where
they there's actually a published
white paper that someone on
the J crew team wrote
about using the BrowserStack API
with tests, woman Q unit.
And I was like, Oh,
that's amazing. And I always
had that in the back
of my mind that when
I got doing, when the
team needed to do sort
of distributed browser testing, this
is what we do now.
We do have some existing
tools within the asp.net team.
Some of them are open
like the old, the lightweight
test automation framework, but I
felt that this was a,
a more complete and sort
of open testing infrastructure that
I would really like open
source projects, like Sigma, which
have a heavy browser dependency
to use. And so I
kind of, I pushed this
quite hot internally and we've
just recently got this set
up and we were lucky
enough to have someone on
the team that has quite
a bit of Linux experience.
And so he was able
to get this up and
running within a couple of
days using the, the, the
integration libraries that the J
crew team has published and
a bit of the help
that they've published as well.
So I wouldn't say it
was, I mean, if I
had tried to do it
personally, I know basically nothing
about Linux, so it would've
been a little higher. I
would've had to learn, you
know, how to set up
a one, two and how
to remote in and do
all that type of stuff.
But because we had someone
on the team who actually
had a bit of Linux
experience, so it became quite
a lot easier. It's just
an appliance, it just works.
So this is, seems like
a pretty great, yeah. And
when you do stuff like
this, does it infect the
rest of the team? Like
if you have some successful
service, whether it's running a
Boone too or not, it
doesn't matter. It does. It
serves a purpose and it
works great. Do, does do
other parts of the asp.net
team say, Oh, I really
want to use that too.
So that's a good question.
We have a really good
culture of, of knowledge sharing
in the group, which we
use a mechanism called Brown
bags, the Brown bags of
these idea of a lunchtime
meeting, where you bring your
lunch. And then over the
lunch hour, someone will sort
of just do a very
casual demonstration of something they
thought was cool. And so
we certainly plan on doing
a Brown bag internally about
how we set up tests,
warm with TeamCity and Q
unit and browser stack to
get this really nice test
automation set up. So until
that happens, we're probably not
going to see much leakage,
but once that happens, I
wouldn't be surprised if other
teams look at this and
go, Hey, this is something
that we could probably benefit
from as well. Do you,
do you spend a lot
of time talking to lawyers
and convincing them that these
are all good ideas or
do you just do it
and you count on your
Missouri, You have a great
boss. You and I, so,
as I said before, I
mean, there's a process I'm
looking at, there's an internal
website I'm looking at right
now, which sort of lists
all the requests I've made
for use of open source
software for internal use. And
so I can literally sort
of look at this list
and say, Oh, well, I
put in a notification saying
that we're using the Jacory
transform library. We're using jQuery
cookie, we're using Jason two.
We're using test swarm. We're
using the EMIS build community
tasks because the open source
policy of a particular business
unit is that there are
a number of pre-approved open
source licenses. And if you
want to use an open
source library that is under
that license, one of these
licenses, you have to just
notify I'm using this particular
internal tool. And so we,
you know, I was basically
every time we use anything,
that's open source. I have
to go and create an
entry in this list. And
that's essentially the process. I
don't have to worry about
anything else. Some things like
Linux weren't on that list.
And in that case, I
had to go up and
sort of get approval through
my management chain, but that
wasn't much of an issue.
Okay. Well, that's, that's nice.
The idea that, that if
it's under this license, just
FYI makes things a lot
simpler. We need to make
that like throughout Microsoft, there's
so many other teams where
it's like, Oh, I want
to use food dot JS.
And you know, I need
to write a 12 page
paper about it to tell
the lawyers. Yeah, I can't
speak for other teams, obviously.
I mean, every, every business
unit I think has different
guidelines on open source use,
but it seems that the
wheels are turning such that
there's becoming a lot more
common policy. But at the
end of the day, the
advice internally is always, you
know, speak to your LCA
representative. I wonder, do you
think it's Guthrie? Like why
is our org so into
this, like, I just feel
like I'm a very happy
with the way open source
has gone. I mean, since
the last five years, you
know, I would tell people
that I went to Microsoft
to work on open source
and we continue to work
on open source and it's
working very well, but there's
still all these kind of
nightmare discussions about other organizations.
It just doesn't work smoothly.
I mean, executive air cover
is helpful, but I'm trying
to figure out how we
can get other organizations to
get it. I think, I
think thinking back it's like,
why it's the case and
what happened? Because we shipped
open source libraries with our
product. Like when we made
the decision to ship jQuery
with our product, I think
that created a whole bunch
of groundwork that just had
to be completed by Al
sort of legal department in
order to make that a
reality. And every time we
said, okay, well that worked.
I mean, that was a
lot of work. It wasn't
something that we just decided.
And it happened overnight. There
was a lot of legal
work that had to happen.
And then with every new
library that we decided we
wanted to reship without templates,
we had to go through
and, you know, refine that
work, perhaps change the rules
and set up more process.
And because we've been through
that process time and time
again, we had our have
a, you know, a really
good basis and understanding about
the framework through which we
can use open source in
this division. Now, other business
units, perhaps haven't been through
that they haven't redistributed opensource
software before. So maybe that's
one of the reasons we
have a perceived headstart in
this area. I'm not sure.
Yeah. That's a good question.
I don't know, but I
think it also is us
pushing, right? I mean, you
and me and Mads and
Phil hack and all the
different people in the organization
that just dig open source.
For some reason, we got
ourselves into a situation where
we had, you know, majority
of people who thought this
was important. So the bosses
were hearing it at like
every minute, right? The, the,
the constant couldn't have heard.
No, no, well, this is
cool. I'm glad that you're
able to do this. And
that you're able to make
open source happen, both in
the consumption aspects of opensource
and the production aspects of
open source. And now, you
know, like you said, I
know we've shipped NBC and
that a lot of structure
was put in place to
make that happen. And now
we're, we're shipping signal R
and were using things like
knockout. It, that just means
that whatever, the next thing
that we do in open
source, whatever that might be
is just going to be
that much smoother of a
process. Exactly. Cool. Well, thanks
for talking to me today.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.